.TH OB-BASTION-ID 1 "May 2026" "open-bastion 0.2.3" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
ob-bastion-id \- Print this bastion's identifier (as seen by backends)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ob-bastion-id
.RI [ OPTIONS ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ob-bastion-id
issues a probe request to the LemonLDAP::NG
.I /pam/bastion-token
endpoint using this host's enrolled server token, decodes the returned
JWT, and prints the
.I bastion_id
claim assigned by LLNG at enrolment.
.PP
Backends consult this value when their
.I /etc/open-bastion/openbastion.conf
sets a
.B bastion_jwt_allowed_bastions
whitelist. The administrator running
.BR ob-builder (1)
in
.B \-\-target\-role=backend
mode is asked to provide that list; running this utility on each enrolled
bastion is the canonical way to discover the right value (the alternative
being the LLNG Manager).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-v ", " \-\-verbose
Print all JWT claims as pretty JSON instead of just the
.I bastion_id .
.TP
.B \-j ", " \-\-json
Print
.RS
.EX
{"bastion_id": "..."}
.EE
.RE
for machine-readable use.
.TP
.B \-q ", " \-\-quiet
Suppress informational logs (errors still go to stderr).
.TP
.B \-c ", " \-\-config \fIFILE\fR
Path to \fIopenbastion.conf\fR (default: \fI/etc/open-bastion/openbastion.conf\fR).
.TP
.B \-t ", " \-\-token \fIFILE\fR
Path to the server token file (default: \fI/etc/open-bastion/token\fR).
.TP
.B \-h ", " \-\-help
Show help.
.TP
.B \-V ", " \-\-version
Print the version.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
.I bastion_id
printed successfully.
.TP
.B 1
Configuration or token file missing / unreadable.
.TP
.B 2
.I /pam/bastion-token
request failed (network error, HTTP non-200, or missing
.I bastion_jwt
field in the response).
.TP
.B 3
JWT decoded but the
.I bastion_id
claim is absent (also returned when base64url decoding fails).
.SH SECURITY
Must be run as root in order to read
.I /etc/open-bastion/token
(mode 0600).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ob-enroll (8),
.BR ob-bastion-setup (8),
.BR ob-builder (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Open Bastion team <open-bastion@linagora.com>
