.TH OB-CERT-DAEMON 8 "June 2026" "open-bastion" "System Administration"
.SH NAME
ob-cert-daemon \- privileged bastion hop-certificate minting service
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ob-cert-daemon
.PP
Not run directly. Activated per-connection by
.BR systemd (1)
through
.B ob-cert.socket
(\fI/run/open-bastion/cert.sock\fR).
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ob-cert-daemon
mints the short-lived, LLNG-signed certificate that
.BR ob-ssh (1)
and
.BR ob-scp (1)
use to hop from the bastion to a backend. It replaces the former
\fBsudo ob-bastion-cert-helper\fR bridge: minting a machine certificate is no
longer coupled to the interactive \fBsudo\fR policy (which, in Mode E, requires
an LLNG token and therefore broke non-interactive hops).
.PP
It is socket-activated (one short-lived instance per connection, run as root)
and reached through the unprivileged
.BR ob-cert-request (1)
client. For each connection it:
.IP 1. 4
derives the calling user from the connection's
.B SO_PEERCRED
(kernel-verified, never taken from the request body), so a caller can only mint
a certificate for itself;
.IP 2. 4
reads the bastion's root-only server token (which never leaves the process);
.IP 3. 4
POSTs the request to LLNG
.I /pam/bastion-cert
with that token as Bearer;
.IP 4. 4
relays the LLNG JSON response back over the socket.
.SH PROTOCOL
The connected socket carries a newline-delimited request:
.nf
    line 1: target_host
    line 2: target_group   (empty -> "default")
    line 3: voucher
    line 4: ephemeral SSH public key
.fi
The user is NOT part of the request; it is the SO_PEERCRED identity. The
response is the raw LLNG JSON (certificate, or a structured error).
.SH SECURITY
The certificate's user is the kernel-verified connecting uid, and LLNG binds the
voucher to the \fI(bastion_id, user)\fR pair, so a stolen voucher is useless and
a caller cannot mint for another user. The socket is world-connectable
(\fImode 0666\fR): connecting alone grants nothing without a valid voucher. The
server token never leaves the daemon. No \fBsudo\fR, no setuid. Request inputs
are length-bounded and a read/write timeout drops a stalled peer.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /run/open-bastion/cert.sock
The activation socket (see
.BR ob-cert.socket ).
.TP
.I /etc/open-bastion/openbastion.conf
Source of \fIportal_url\fR and \fIverify_ssl\fR.
.TP
.I /etc/open-bastion/ssh-proxy.conf
Optional overrides (\fIPORTAL_URL\fR, \fISERVER_TOKEN_FILE\fR, \fIVERIFY_SSL\fR,
\fITIMEOUT\fR); honoured only when root-owned and not group/world-writable.
.TP
.I /var/lib/open-bastion/token
The bastion's server token (root-only).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ob-cert-request (1),
.BR ob-ssh (1),
.BR ob-scp (1),
.BR ob-bastion-setup (8)
.SH AUTHOR
Linagora
