.TH OB-CERT-REQUEST 1 "June 2026" "open-bastion" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
ob-cert-request \- unprivileged client for the bastion certificate socket
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ob-cert-request
.RI [ socket-path ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ob-cert-request
is the unprivileged half of the bastion hop-certificate flow. It is invoked by
.BR ob-ssh (1)
and
.BR ob-scp (1)
(running as the logged-in bastion user); you do not normally run it by hand.
.PP
It connects to the local Unix socket served by
.BR ob-cert-daemon (8)
(default \fI/run/open-bastion/cert.sock\fR, or \fIsocket-path\fR if given),
forwards the request read from standard input, and writes the LLNG
.I /pam/bastion-cert
JSON response to standard output.
.PP
It carries no privilege and holds no secret: the daemon derives the
certificate's user from the connection's
.B SO_PEERCRED
(kernel-verified), so the request cannot be used to mint a certificate for
another user.
.SH PROTOCOL
Standard input is a newline-delimited request:
.nf
    line 1: target_host
    line 2: target_group   (may be empty)
    line 3: voucher        (from $LLNG_BASTION_VOUCHER)
    line 4: ephemeral SSH public key
.fi
Standard output is the raw LLNG JSON response.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
The response was relayed.
.TP
.B 1
Could not reach the socket, or an I/O error occurred.
.TP
.B 2
Usage or socket-setup error.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /run/open-bastion/cert.sock
The bastion certificate socket
.RB ( ob-cert.socket ).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ob-cert-daemon (8),
.BR ob-ssh (1),
.BR ob-scp (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Linagora
