.TH OB-RECORD-SINK 8 "June 2026" "open-bastion" "System Administration"
.SH NAME
ob-record-sink \- privileged session-recording sink
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ob-record-sink
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ob-record-sink
is the privileged half of the tamper-evident session-recording flow. It is
socket-activated by systemd (one short-lived instance per connection,
.BR ob-record.socket )
and is not run by hand. It runs as
.B root
so that the recordings it writes cannot be read, deleted or altered by the
recorded (unprivileged) user.
.PP
For each connection it:
.IP 1. 4
derives the recorded user from the connection's
.B SO_PEERCRED
(kernel-verified). This is the only source of identity \(em never the header \(em
so a caller can only ever record under its own name, and the
.RI < user >
path component is never client-controlled (no cross-user write, no path
traversal).
.IP 2. 4
reads a one-line JSON metadata header followed by the opaque recording stream
(typescript bytes) until EOF, sent by
.BR ob-record-connect (1).
.IP 3. 4
writes the recording and its metadata under
.I /var/lib/open-bastion/sessions/<user>/
\(em directory
.BR "root:ob-sessions 0750" ,
files
.B 0640
\(em created with
.B O_NOFOLLOW
/
.BR O_EXCL .
.PP
The sink records only what it observes: status
.B active
then
.B completed
(clean EOF),
.B truncated
(size cap or timeout) or
.B aborted
(abnormal drop). The child command's exit code is deliberately not recorded \(em
it would be entirely client-reported.
.SH THREAT MODEL
Root is trusted; the sink defends only against the unprivileged user tampering
with its own recordings. Defending against root requires an LSM, append-only
media or remote log shipping, which are out of scope.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B OB_SESSIONS_DIR
Override the base sessions directory (default
.IR /var/lib/open-bastion/sessions ).
Read from the daemon's own environment, which is set by the systemd unit (never
by the connecting client); intended for tests.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /run/open-bastion/rec.sock
The session-recording socket
.RB ( ob-record.socket ).
.TP
.I /var/lib/open-bastion/sessions/<user>/
Recordings and metadata (root-owned).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ob-record-connect (1),
.BR ob-session-recorder (8),
.BR ob-cert-daemon (8)
.SH AUTHOR
Linagora
