.TH OB-RECORD-CONNECT 1 "June 2026" "open-bastion" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
ob-record-connect \- unprivileged connector for the session-recording sink
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ob-record-connect
.I HEADER_JSON
.I STREAM_PATH
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ob-record-connect
is the unprivileged half of the tamper-evident session-recording flow. It is
invoked by
.BR ob-session-recorder (8)
(running as the logged-in user); you do not normally run it by hand.
.PP
It connects to the local Unix socket served by
.BR ob-record-sink (8)
(default \fI/run/open-bastion/rec.sock\fR). If it cannot connect it exits
non-zero \fBbefore\fR reading any stream, so the recorder can fail closed (refuse
the session) before a shell starts. On success it writes the one-line JSON
metadata
.I HEADER_JSON
to the socket, then opens
.I STREAM_PATH
and copies it to the socket until EOF, half-closing so the sink finalizes the
recording.
.PP
For a PTY session,
.I STREAM_PATH
is a FIFO that
.BR script (1)
writes the typescript to; for a metadata-only transfer session it is
\fI/dev/null\fR (immediate EOF). A FIFO is used rather than handing
.BR script
the socket directly because
.BR script
re-\fBopen\fR()s its typescript path and a Unix-domain socket cannot be opened
via a path or \fI/dev/fd\fR (open() returns \fBENXIO\fR); a real FIFO inode opens
fine. This helper carries no privilege and holds no secret: the sink derives the
recorded user from the connection's
.B SO_PEERCRED
(kernel-verified), so the header cannot make the sink write under another
user's name.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B OB_RECORD_SOCKET
Override the socket path (default \fI/run/open-bastion/rec.sock\fR).
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
The stream was forwarded and the sink half-closed.
.TP
.B 1
Could not reach the sink, or an I/O error occurred. Recording is mandatory, so
the caller fails closed.
.TP
.B 2
Usage error.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /run/open-bastion/rec.sock
The session-recording socket
.RB ( ob-record.socket ).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ob-record-sink (8),
.BR ob-session-recorder (8)
.SH AUTHOR
Linagora
