.TH OB-SFTP 1 "June 2026" "open-bastion" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
ob-sftp \- bastion SFTP to a backend with LLNG certificate vouching
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ob-sftp
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] [\fIsftp-options\fR] [\fIuser@\fR]\fIbackend\fR[:\fIpath\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ob-sftp
is the
.BR sftp (1)
counterpart of
.BR ob-ssh (1)
and
.BR ob-scp (1).
Run on a bastion by a user already authenticated to it, it mints a short-lived,
LemonLDAP::NG-signed certificate for this user and runs
.B sftp
with it, so an interactive or batch SFTP session can be opened to a backend:
.IP \(bu 2
interactive:  \fBob-sftp\fR user@backend
.IP \(bu 2
with a path:  \fBob-sftp\fR user@backend:/remote/dir
.IP \(bu 2
batch mode:   \fBob-sftp\fR \-b script.sftp user@backend
.PP
The destination is a single [\fIuser@\fR]\fIbackend\fR[:\fIpath\fR] endpoint.
Unlike
.BR ob-scp (1)
there is no backend-to-backend case: SFTP connects to one remote endpoint, and
a single vouched certificate authenticates as exactly one principal.
.PP
No SSH key of the user's own on the bastion and no agent forwarding are needed:
the ephemeral private key lives in tmpfs and is wiped when
.B ob-sftp
exits.
.SH OPTIONS
Options consumed by ob-sftp itself must come first. Any further options are
passed straight to
.BR sftp (1)
\(em including
.BR sftp 's
own
.BR \-c " " \fICIPHER\fR,
which is why ob-sftp's config option is long-only (a short
.B \-c
would shadow it).
.TP
.BR \-\-config " " \fIFILE\fR
Use alternate configuration file (default: /etc/open-bastion/ssh-proxy.conf)
.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-debug
Enable debug output to stderr
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Show help message and exit
.TP
.BR \-V ", " \-\-version
Show version and exit
.PP
Any further options are passed straight through to
.BR sftp (1)
(for example \fB\-r\fR, \fB\-P\fR \fIPORT\fR, \fB\-b\fR \fIFILE\fR, \fB\-C\fR).
.SH CONFIGURATION
Shares \fI/etc/open-bastion/ssh-proxy.conf\fR with
.BR ob-ssh (1);
see that page for the keys.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/open-bastion/ssh-proxy.conf
Configuration file (world-readable; contains no secret)
.TP
.I /usr/lib/open-bastion/ob-cert-lib.sh
Shared cert-vouching library sourced by ob-ssh, ob-scp and ob-sftp
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success
.TP
.B 1
Error (configuration, no valid voucher, or no destination endpoint)
.PP
Otherwise the exit status of the underlying
.BR sftp (1).
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
$ ob-sftp dwho@backend1
$ ob-sftp dwho@backend1:/var/log
$ ob-sftp -b commands.sftp dwho@backend1
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ob-ssh (1),
.BR ob-scp (1),
.BR ob-cert-request (1),
.BR ob-cert-daemon (8),
.BR ob-bastion-setup (8),
.BR sftp (1),
.BR ssh (1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2025 Linagora.
License: AGPL-3.0
.SH AUTHORS
Xavier Guimard <xguimard@linagora.com>
