.TH OB-SCP 1 "June 2026" "open-bastion" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
ob-scp \- bastion file copy to/from/between backends with LLNG certificate vouching
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ob-scp
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] [\fIscp-options\fR] \fISOURCE\fR ... \fIDEST\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ob-scp
is the
.BR scp (1)
counterpart of
.BR ob-ssh (1).
Run on a bastion by a user already authenticated to it, it mints a short-lived,
LemonLDAP::NG-signed certificate for this user and runs
.B scp
with it, so files can be copied:
.IP \(bu 2
bastion to backend:  \fBob-scp\fR file user@backend:/path
.IP \(bu 2
backend to bastion:  \fBob-scp\fR user@backend:/path file
.IP \(bu 2
backend to backend:  \fBob-scp\fR user@b1:/path user@b2:/path
.PP
\fISOURCE\fR/\fIDEST\fR are local paths or [\fIuser@\fR]\fIbackend\fR:/\fIpath\fR
specs. All remote endpoints must use the SAME remote user, because a single
vouched certificate authenticates as exactly one principal.
.PP
All transfers are forced through the bastion (\fBscp -3\fR). This is not just
convenience: the vouched certificate is pinned to the bastion's source address,
so a direct backend-to-backend transfer would be rejected. Routing every
connection through the bastion keeps the source address matching the
certificate.
.SH OPTIONS
Options consumed by ob-scp itself must come first:
.TP
.BR \-c ", " \-\-config " " \fIFILE\fR
Use alternate configuration file (default: /etc/open-bastion/ssh-proxy.conf)
.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-debug
Enable debug output to stderr
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Show help message and exit
.TP
.BR \-V ", " \-\-version
Show version and exit
.PP
Any further options are passed straight through to
.BR scp (1)
(for example \fB\-r\fR, \fB\-P\fR \fIPORT\fR, \fB\-p\fR, \fB\-C\fR, \fB\-l\fR).
.SH CONFIGURATION
Shares \fI/etc/open-bastion/ssh-proxy.conf\fR with
.BR ob-ssh (1);
see that page for the keys.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/open-bastion/ssh-proxy.conf
Configuration file (world-readable; contains no secret)
.TP
.I /usr/lib/open-bastion/ob-cert-lib.sh
Shared cert-vouching library sourced by ob-ssh and ob-scp
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success
.TP
.B 1
Error (configuration, no valid voucher, mismatched remote users, or no remote
endpoint)
.PP
Otherwise the exit status of the underlying
.BR scp (1).
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
$ ob-scp ./data.tar dwho@backend1:/tmp/
$ ob-scp dwho@backend1:/var/log/app.log ./
$ ob-scp -r dwho@backend1:/etc/app dwho@backend2:/etc/app
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ob-ssh (1),
.BR ob-sftp (1),
.BR ob-cert-request (1),
.BR ob-cert-daemon (8),
.BR ob-bastion-setup (8),
.BR scp (1),
.BR sftp (1),
.BR ssh (1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2025 Linagora.
License: AGPL-3.0
.SH AUTHORS
Xavier Guimard <xguimard@linagora.com>
