.TH OB-SESSION-PRUNE 8 "June 2026" "open-bastion" "System Administration"
.SH NAME
ob-session-prune \- compress and expire recorded SSH sessions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ob-session-prune
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ob-session-prune
bounds the disk used by SSH session recordings. It runs daily from
.BR ob-session-prune.timer (8)
and performs two stages:
.IP 1. 4
Compress closed recording payloads
.RI ( *.typescript ", " *.cast ", " *.ttyrec )
older than
.I recording_compress_after_days
with
.BR gzip (1).
The paired
.I *.json
metadata is left uncompressed so the index stays greppable.
.IP 2. 4
Delete recordings (payload and
.IR *.json )
older than
.I recording_retention_days "."
Empty per-user directories are then removed.
.PP
Session recording is fail-closed: when recording is enabled, a full disk
refuses new logins. Unbounded recordings are therefore an availability risk,
which this tool mitigates. Expiry also drops audit evidence, so each run that
deletes anything is logged at
.B notice
level via
.BR syslog (3)
(tag
.IR ob-session-prune )
for accountability, and the retention default is deliberately long.
.SH CONFIGURATION
Settings are read from the session-recorder configuration file
.RI ( /etc/open-bastion/session-recorder.conf ","
shared with
.BR ob-session-recorder (8)):
.TP
.B sessions_dir
Recordings tree (default
.IR /var/lib/open-bastion/sessions ).
Must be under
.IR /var/lib/open-bastion ;
otherwise the tool refuses to run.
.TP
.B recording_compress_after_days
Compress payloads older than this many days (default
.BR 1 ).
Set to
.B 0
to disable compression.
.TP
.B recording_retention_days
Delete recordings older than this many days (default
.BR 365 ).
Set to
.B 0
to keep recordings forever (compression still applies).
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/open-bastion/session-recorder.conf
Configuration file.
.TP
.I /var/lib/open-bastion/sessions/
Recordings tree, owned
.IR root:ob-sessions ", mode " 0750 .
.SH SECURITY
Recordings are root-owned
.RI ( root:ob-sessions " " 0640 )
under a root-owned tree. This tool runs as root from a sandboxed oneshot
service, so the tamper-evident layout is preserved: the recorded user never
has access to its own recordings.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ob-session-recorder (8),
.BR ob-record-sink (8),
.BR gzip (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Linagora
