.TH OB-SSH 1 "June 2026" "open-bastion" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
ob-ssh \- bastion-to-backend SSH connector with LLNG certificate vouching
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ob-ssh
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] [\fIuser@\fR]\fIbackend\fR [\fIport\fR] [\fIcommand ...\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ob-ssh
runs on a bastion server, invoked by a user already authenticated to the
bastion, to reach a backend WITHOUT any SSH key of their own on the bastion and
without agent forwarding. The bastion mints a short-lived, LemonLDAP::NG-signed
SSH certificate for this user and re-originates the SSH connection to the
backend with it.
.PP
This replaces the former JWT-over-SendEnv transport (which never worked, because
SendEnv/AcceptEnv do not populate the PAM environment the backend reads). See
.IR doc/design/bastion-cert-vouching.md .
.SS Flow
.IP 1. 4
Reads the per-session bastion voucher from \fB$LLNG_BASTION_VOUCHER\fR (set by
.BR pam_openbastion (8)
at bastion login; it proves THIS user connected to THIS bastion).
.IP 2. 4
Generates an ephemeral keypair in tmpfs (the private key never leaves the
bastion and is wiped on exit).
.IP 3. 4
POSTs the ephemeral public key plus the voucher to LemonLDAP::NG
\fI/pam/bastion-cert\fR and receives a short-lived user certificate (principal =
user, pinned to the bastion's source address, bastion_id in the key-id).
.IP 4. 4
Connects to the backend with that certificate.
.PP
With no trailing \fIcommand\fR an interactive shell is opened on the backend.
When a \fIcommand\fR is given it is run non-interactively (no pty is requested,
mirroring \fBssh\fR(1) \fIhost command\fR) and its output is returned verbatim,
so it pipes and captures cleanly.
.SS Modes
.TP
.B Direct mode
Called with a target host argument (the common case), optionally followed by a
command to run on the backend.
.TP
.B ForceCommand mode
When \fBSSH_ORIGINAL_COMMAND\fR is set (used as an sshd ForceCommand).
.TP
.B Interactive mode
When neither a target argument nor SSH_ORIGINAL_COMMAND is set, prompts for one.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-c ", " \-\-config " " \fIFILE\fR
Use alternate configuration file (default: /etc/open-bastion/ssh-proxy.conf)
.TP
.BR \-p ", " \-\-port " " \fIPORT\fR
Backend SSH port; overrides the legacy positional \fIport\fR argument.
.TP
.BR \-l ", " \-\-login " " \fIUSER\fR
Backend login user; overrides \fB$USER\fR for a bare (user-less) host.
.TP
.BI \-o " OPTION"
Pass an
.BR ssh (1)
\fB\-o\fR option through to the backend connection (e.g. \fB\-o
ServerAliveInterval=30\fR). May be repeated; appended after the config's
\fBSSH_OPTIONS\fR.
.TP
.B \-\-
End option parsing; the host and command follow.
.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-debug
Enable debug output to stderr
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Show help message and exit
.TP
.BR \-V ", " \-\-version
Show version and exit
.SH CONFIGURATION
The command reads configuration from \fI/etc/open-bastion/ssh-proxy.conf\fR
(written by \fBob-bastion-setup\fR(8)):
.PP
.nf
# LemonLDAP::NG portal URL (required)
PORTAL_URL="https://auth.example.com"

# Server token file (from ob-enroll); root-only by design
SERVER_TOKEN_FILE="/var/lib/open-bastion/token"

# Target server group for backends
TARGET_GROUP="default"

# HTTP timeout (seconds)
TIMEOUT=10

# Verify SSL certificates
VERIFY_SSL=true

# Additional SSH options (passed through to ssh)
SSH_OPTIONS=""

# Enable debug output
DEBUG=false
.fi
.PP
A normal (non-root) user cannot read the root-only server token; the single
privileged call is delegated to
.BR ob-cert-daemon (8),
a socket-activated service reached through the unprivileged
.BR ob-cert-request (1)
client. The daemon derives the certificate's user from the connection's
SO_PEERCRED, so it always mints for the connecting user. No sudo, no setuid.
.SH "TTY HANDLING"
When standard input is a terminal,
.B ob-ssh
forces a remote pty (\fBssh -tt\fR) so the bastion-side terminal is put into raw
mode: input is echoed once (by the backend), and Ctrl-C or a failing command
act on the remote shell rather than tearing down the connector. When stdin is
not a terminal (piped input), no pty is requested (\fBssh -T\fR).
.SH SECURITY
The vouched certificate provides cryptographic proof that the user authenticated
to this bastion. It is short-lived, carries the user as its only principal, and
is pinned to the bastion's source address, so it cannot be replayed from
elsewhere. The backend enforces acceptance via
.BR TrustedUserCAKeys ,
an
.B AuthorizedPrincipalsCommand
that checks the bastion_id in the key-id against its allow-list, and the
certificate's source-address restriction. No
.B AcceptEnv
is required.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/open-bastion/ssh-proxy.conf
Configuration file (world-readable; contains no secret)
.TP
.I /usr/lib/open-bastion/ob-cert-lib.sh
Shared cert-vouching library sourced by ob-ssh and ob-scp
.TP
.I /var/lib/open-bastion/token
Server authentication token (root-only, from ob-enroll)
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B LLNG_BASTION_VOUCHER
The per-session voucher set by pam_openbastion at bastion login.
.TP
.B SSH_ORIGINAL_COMMAND
Used in ForceCommand mode to determine the target host.
.TP
.B OB_CERT_LIB
Override the path to the shared cert-vouching library (testing).
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success
.TP
.B 1
Error (configuration, network, authentication, or no valid voucher)
.PP
Otherwise the exit status of the underlying
.BR ssh (1).
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
# Connect from the bastion to a backend as the same user:
$ ob-ssh backend-web01

# Different remote user and port:
$ ob-ssh admin@backend-web01 2222

# Run a single command on the backend (non-interactive, output captured):
$ ob-ssh backend-web01 uptime
$ ob-ssh admin@backend-web01 -p 2222 -- systemctl status nginx

# From a workstation through an ssh_config "RemoteCommand ob-ssh ..." entry,
# override RemoteCommand to append the backend command (ssh forbids combining a
# command-line command with a configured RemoteCommand):
$ ssh -o RemoteCommand="ob-ssh 10.0.0.5 ls -la" backend1
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ob-scp (1),
.BR ob-sftp (1),
.BR ob-cert-request (1),
.BR ob-cert-daemon (8),
.BR ob-bastion-setup (8),
.BR ob-backend-setup (8),
.BR ob-enroll (8),
.BR ssh (1),
.BR sshd_config (5)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2025 Linagora.
License: AGPL-3.0
.SH AUTHORS
Xavier Guimard <xguimard@linagora.com>
