.TH OB-BUILDER 1 "May 2026" "open-bastion 0.2.3" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
ob-builder \- Generate Open Bastion deployment artefacts
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ob-builder
.RI [ OPTIONS ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ob-builder
is run on an administrator workstation to produce a self-contained
deployment artefact (a self-extracting shell installer and/or an Ansible
role) that a target server can later execute to install and configure
Open Bastion against a LemonLDAP::NG SSO.
.PP
The builder asks a short questionnaire (security scenario, SSO URL,
OIDC client_id and client_secret handling, target role, server group,
auto-launch policy, optional bastion whitelist for backends, and optional
service accounts) and then
fetches the SSH CA public key and JWKS from the chosen SSO. The generated
artefacts deposit
.IR /etc/open-bastion/openbastion.conf ,
install the
.B open-bastion
package via the bundled APT keyring, and prompt step-by-step for
.BR ob-enroll (8)
followed by
.BR ob-bastion-setup (8)
or
.BR ob-backend-setup (8) .
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-config \fIFILE\fR
Read all answers from a YAML config file (non-interactive). The accepted
keys are listed in the README shipped with the package.
.TP
.B \-\-output\-shell \fIPATH\fR
Write a self-extracting shell installer to \fIPATH\fR.
.TP
.B \-\-output\-ansible \fIPATH\fR
Write an Ansible role tree to \fIPATH\fR (a directory).
.TP
.B \-\-bundle
Generate paired bastion + backend artefacts in one run, sharing the
same SSO context.
.TP
.B \-\-repo\-keyring \fIPATH\fR
GPG keyring used to sign the APT repository. Defaults to the Linagora
keyring bundled with the package
(\fI/usr/share/open-bastion-builder/keyrings/open-bastion-linagora.gpg\fR).
.TP
.B \-\-apt\-url \fIURL\fR
APT repo base URL. Default: \fIhttps://linagora.github.io/open-bastion\fR.
.TP
.B \-\-apt\-suite \fISUITE\fR
APT suite/codename. Default: \fItrixie\fR.
.TP
.B \-\-apt\-component \fICOMP\fR
APT component. Default: \fImain\fR.
.TP
.B \-\-sign\-with \fIKEYID\fR
GPG-sign the shell output with this key (produces a \fI.sig\fR sidecar).
.TP
.B \-\-allow\-http
Allow an \fIhttp://\fR SSO URL (default is to refuse non-TLS portals).
.TP
.B \-\-insecure
Skip TLS verification when fetching from the SSO. Debug only.
.TP
.B \-\-dry\-run
Print the actions that would be taken without writing any files.
.TP
.B \-h ", " \-\-help
Show help.
.TP
.B \-V ", " \-\-version
Print the builder version.
.SH SERVICE ACCOUNTS
The builder can declare SSH-key-only local accounts (ansible, backup, CI/CD,
\&...) that authenticate by SSH key fingerprint without OIDC. The questionnaire
prompts for them interactively; a
.B \-\-config
YAML provides them under a
.B service_accounts:
list (keys:
.IR name ", " key_fingerprint ", " sudo_allowed ", " sudo_nopasswd ", "
.IR shell ", " home ", " gecos ", " uid ", " gid ).
Each entry is validated at build time and rendered into
.I /etc/open-bastion/service-accounts.conf
(\fB0600 root:root\fR) on the target, with
.B service_accounts_file
set in
.IR openbastion.conf .
They apply to every role. See
.BR open-bastion (7)
and the project's
.I doc/service-accounts.md .
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /usr/share/open-bastion-builder/templates/
Source templates for the generated shell installer and Ansible role.
.TP
.I /usr/share/open-bastion-builder/keyrings/
Bundled APT repository keyrings (default = Linagora).
.SH SECURITY
The generated shell installer is executed as root on the target host.
The builder validates the SSO URL character class to forbid shell
metacharacters and embeds the optional client_secret base64-encoded so
that secrets containing
.BR \" ,
.BR $ ,
.BR ` ,
or backslash cannot break out of the generated literal. The
.B \-\-self\-delete
default is automatically enabled when the embedded client_secret mode is
chosen, so the installer removes itself from disk after a successful run.
.SH EXAMPLES
Interactive run targeting the Linagora SSO:
.PP
.RS
ob-builder --output-shell /tmp/bootstrap.sh
.RE
.PP
Replayable build from YAML (e.g. for CI):
.PP
.RS
ob-builder --config build.yml --output-shell /tmp/boot.sh --output-ansible /tmp/role
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ob-enroll (8),
.BR ob-bastion-setup (8),
.BR ob-backend-setup (8),
.BR ob-bastion-id (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Open Bastion team <open-bastion@linagora.com>
